.. |br| raw:: html

   <br />

.. |github_link| raw:: html

   <a href="https://github.com/schemaspy/schemaspy" target="_blank">Github</a>


.. |java_power_tools| raw:: html

   <a href="http://my.safaribooksonline.com/9780596527938/I_book_d1e1d1e112?portal=oreilly#X2ludGVybmFsX0h0bWxWaWV3P3htbGlkPTk3ODA1OTY1Mjc5MzglMkZjaDEyJnF1ZXJ5PQ==" target="_blank">Java Power Tools</a>


Overview
===================

SchemaSpy is a Java-based tool (requires Java 8 or higher) that analyzes the metadata of a schema in a database and generates a visual representation of it in a browser-displayable format.
It lets you click through the hierarchy of database tables via child and parent table relationships as represented by both HTML links and entity-relationship diagrams.
It's also designed to help resolve the obtuse errors that a database sometimes gives related to failures due to constraints.

SchemaSpy comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. |br|
SchemaSpy is free software licensed and distributed under LGPL version 3 or later |br|
SchemaSpy can be redistributed under the conditions of LGPL version 3 or later. |br|
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/

If you like SchemaSpy, don't forget to give us a star on |github_link|.

SchemaSpy produces dot-file and uses either the dot executable from `Graphviz <http://www.graphviz.org/>`_ or embedded `viz.js <https://github.com/mdaines/viz.js>`_ to generate graphical representations of the table/view relationships. This was initially added for people who see things visually.
Now the graphical representation of relationships is a fundamental feature of the tool. Graphvis is not required to view the output generated by SchemaSpy, but the dot program should be in your PATH
(not CLASSPATH) or use the ``-gv`` or ``-visjz`` arguments, else none of the entity relationship diagrams will be rendered.

SchemaSpy uses JDBC's database metadata extraction services to gather the majority of its information, but has to make vendor-specific SQL queries to gather some information such as the SQL associated with a view and the details of check constraints.
The differences between vendors have been isolated to configuration files and are extremely limited. Almost all of the vendor-specific SQL is optional.

SchemaSpy was mentioned in one of th  O'Reilly's book |java_power_tools|